In this video, we're going to look at a Setliff two operations and see how to show that it is not a vector space.
So here I have a set of all pairs of real numbers and you have to keep in operations here.
I don't want to think about our eight vector space properties in which one we think is most likely to fail.
So in this particular example, I look at the addition in the scale and multiplication there,
and I think the addition looks a little bit funny, or maybe then these scalar multiplication.
Now, the addition does look like it's probably going to be competitive,
because if I swap the roles of the the ones in the twos, I end up with the same thing.
But I'm a little skeptical about the associativity here.
So remember, associativity means that we add three of these things together.
There's two ways we could choose to do that, and we hope that would give us the same thing.
Clemmy, write down exactly what I mean there. So we can take X one, Y one and we can add that two X to Y too.
And we can add this two X three Y three.
Now, one regular old addition. It doesn't matter which one of those additions operations we do first.
So that's the associative property that we're trying to check here. So one way we can do this is the first at X one by one, X two, y two.
So I want to know that by putting parentheses here and the other way, we could do this to take X one, Y one.
But first, add X to Y to.
Two x three, y three. All right, so let's compare both of these out and see if we get the same result.
So let's do the top one first so we'll add X one, Y one to X to Y two.
So by our definition, that's two X one plus two X two, two Y one plus two, one, two.
So what was the Y? And we're going to add this two x three Y three.
All right. So this addition is maybe slightly trickier, but we're just going to look at our role here.
And this says, we're going to take two times the first component of the first one.
Add it to two times the first component of the second one. So the first component, the first one here is now two x one plus two x two.
And then we're going to add that to two times the first component of the second one in this case, that takes three.
And similarly for the wives, two times the second component of the first one.
So that be the two. Why one plus two wives who. And then we have to add to that two times the second component of the second one.
So in this case, that's why three. And now we have some regular old real number arithmetic here.
So if we distribute this out, we have, I think for X one plus four x two plus two x three.
And the Y component we have for Y one plus four Y two plus two Y.
And that's for the first one. So now we're going to simplify the second one down there.
So first, I'm just going to copy down the x1 y one because we're gonna do the other additions first.
Now we do this. You end up with two x two plus two X three and two Y two plus two Y three.
And once again, the second edition is maybe slightly trickier, but it's not too bad.
So here we'll take two times the first component of the first one. Again, the first component, the first one here is X ones.
That's not too terrible. But now this X two is referring to the first component of the second one.
So two tons, whatever's in the first slot of the second one, which I see is two x two plus two x three.
And now for the second component, it will have the two Y one.
But now will take two times whatever is the second component of the second one.
So in this case, two y two was two y three.
And once again, now we can just do some real number arithmetic here and distribute and have two x one plus four x two plus four x three.
And in the second spot, we have two Y one plus four Y two plus four Y three.
All right, so now we just want to look at the change colors here.
We just want to look at these two and see if they're the same.
And now pretty clearly they're not the same. We have four x one in the top and a two X one in the bottom.
And same thing for the X threes. These are not equal. So addition is not associative.
And therefore, this thing B is not a vector space.